README.MD, before:

# min-pe-parser

[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/min-pe-parser.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/min-pe-parser)
[![Docs.rs](https://docs.rs/min-pe-parser/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/min-pe-parser)
[![CI](https://github.com/Sewer56/min-pe-parser/actions/workflows/rust.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Sewer56/min-pe-parser/actions)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/Sewer56/min-pe-parser/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/Sewer56/min-pe-parser)

## About

Optimized routines for parsing certain parts of the PE header, optimized for use in the Reloaded3 libraries & runtime.

Aimed at minimizing code size down to the absolute minimum.
You can learn more about this project in the [dedicated documentation page][docs].

## Usage

This package provides the following utility functions:
- `get_import_dll_names` - Extracts the names of DLLs that a PE file imports.
- `get_section_names` - Retrieves the names of sections defined within the PE file.
- `get_export_rva` - Retrieves the Relative Virtual Address (RVA) of a specified export in the PE file.

### Extracting Imported DLL Names

To extract the names of DLLs that a PE file imports, use the `get_import_dll_names` function. 

This function requires a pointer to the start of the PE file in memory, flags to indicate whether 
the PE file is mapped into memory already and whether to force interpretation as PE32 or PE64 format.

```rust
// Assuming `pe_bytes` is a byte slice containing your PE file data
let pe_start = pe_bytes.as_ptr() as *const c_void;
let is_mapped = false; // Set to true if the PE file is already mapped into memory
let force_pe64 = false;// Force PE64 format
let force_pe32 = false;// Force PE32 format

let imported_dll_names = unsafe {
    get_import_dll_names(pe_start, is_mapped, force_pe64, force_pe32)
};
println!("Imported DLLs: {:?}", imported_dll_names);
```

### Retrieving Section Names

To get the names of sections within the PE file, use the `get_section_names` function. 
Similar to `get_import_dll_names`, this function requires a pointer to the start of the PE file 
and flags for PE format interpretation.

```rust
let section_names = unsafe {
    get_section_names(pe_start, force_pe64, force_pe32)
};
println!("Section Names: {:?}", section_names);
```

### Retrieving Export RVA

To get the Relative Virtual Address (RVA) of a specific export in the PE file, use the 
`get_export_rva` function.

This function requires a pointer to the start of the PE file, the name of the export,
and flags similar to the other functions.

```rust
let export_name = "SomeExportFunction";
let export_rva = unsafe {
    get_export_rva(pe_start, export_name, is_mapped, force_pe64, force_pe32)
};
if export_rva != usize::MAX {
    println!("RVA of {}: 0x{:X}", export_name, export_rva);
} else {
    println!("Export {} not found", export_name);
}
```

### Optimization

The `force_pe64` and `force_pe32` flags are used to force the parser to interpret the PE file as 
a specific format. This is a compiler hint that can be used to say 'I will only ever deal with PE32'
files, etc. Saves a few instructions.

## Development

How to develop this project.

***Clone this Repository:***
```bash
# When cloning, make sure symlinks are enabled
git clone -c core.symlinks=true https://github.com/Sewer56/min-pe-parser.git
```

***Install Rust:***
- Install the [Rust Toolchain.][rust-toolchain]***Setup IDE***
- This repository is fully with VSCode. [Guidance below](#visual-studio-code-integration).
### Visual Studio Code Integration

`Code`/`VSCode` is the de-facto Rust development environment.  

The following extensions are required:  
- [rust-analyzer][rust-analyzer] for Rust support.  
- [coverage-gutters][coverage-gutters] for Coverage support.  
- [CodeLLDB][codelldb] for debugging.  
- [crates](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=serayuzgur.crates) easier dependency management.  

The VSCode configuration in Reloaded projects (`.vscode`) contain the following:  
- Run Rust linter `clippy` on Save.  
- Run code format `rustfmt` on Save.  
- Tasks for common operations (generate documentation, active CI/CD etc.).  

These configurations are in the `.vscode` folder; and the tasks can be ran via `Ctrl+Shift+P -> Run Task`.  

#### Test Coverage

To run Coverage, run task (`Ctrl+Shift+P -> Run Task`), you should see: 

| Task                   | Description                                                                |
| ---------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Cargo Watch Tarpaulin  | Automatically runs tests and updates coverage on save.                     |
| Generate Code Coverage | Manually generate code coverage (`cobertura.xml`, `tarpaulin-report.html`) |

The `tarpaulin-report.html` file can be opened in VSCode (`Show Preview`) for a live view.

For GUI integration, run action `Coverage Gutter: Watch` (in `Ctrl+Shift+P` actions menu).


## File Layout

The following is the expected file layout for your project:

```
.vscode/
docs/
src/
Cargo.toml
mkdocs.yml
```

The `docs` folder, and `mkdocs.yml` contain [MkDocs Material documentation][mkdocs-material] for your project.  
The `src` folder should contains all source code for your project.  

`Cargo.toml` should be in the root of the project.  

## Releasing a New Version

Make a tag, aptly named after the current version of the project. For instance, if you are publishing version `0.1.0`, the tag should be `0.1.0`. This will create a GitHub release for you automatically.

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.MD) for guidance on how to contribute to this project.  

## License

Licensed under [GPL v3 (with Reloaded FAQ)](./LICENSE).  

[Learn more about Reloaded's general choice of licensing for projects.][reloaded-license].  

[codecov]: https://about.codecov.io/
[codelldb]: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vadimcn.vscode-lldb
[coverage-gutters]: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ryanluker.vscode-coverage-gutters 
[crates-io-key]: https://crates.io/settings/tokens
[nuget-key]: https://www.nuget.org/account/apikeys
[target-triple]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/rustc/platform-support.html
[docs]: https://min-pe-parser.github.io/min-pe-parser
[mkdocs-material]: https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/
[reloaded-license]: https://reloaded-project.github.io/Reloaded.MkDocsMaterial.Themes.R2/Pages/license/
[rust-analyzer]: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=rust-lang.rust-analyzer
[rust-toolchain]: https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install

Commit message:

Updated: Readme with instructions to install tarpaulin.

README.MD, after:

# min-pe-parser

[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/min-pe-parser.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/min-pe-parser)
[![Docs.rs](https://docs.rs/min-pe-parser/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/min-pe-parser)
[![CI](https://github.com/Sewer56/min-pe-parser/actions/workflows/rust.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Sewer56/min-pe-parser/actions)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/Sewer56/min-pe-parser/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/Sewer56/min-pe-parser)

## About

Optimized routines for parsing certain parts of the PE header, optimized for use in the Reloaded3 libraries & runtime.

Aimed at minimizing code size down to the absolute minimum.
You can learn more about this project in the [dedicated documentation page][docs].

## Usage

This package provides the following utility functions:
- `get_import_dll_names` - Extracts the names of DLLs that a PE file imports.
- `get_section_names` - Retrieves the names of sections defined within the PE file.
- `get_export_rva` - Retrieves the Relative Virtual Address (RVA) of a specified export in the PE file.

### Extracting Imported DLL Names

To extract the names of DLLs that a PE file imports, use the `get_import_dll_names` function. 

This function requires a pointer to the start of the PE file in memory, flags to indicate whether 
the PE file is mapped into memory already and whether to force interpretation as PE32 or PE64 format.

```rust
// Assuming `pe_bytes` is a byte slice containing your PE file data
let pe_start = pe_bytes.as_ptr() as *const c_void;
let is_mapped = false; // Set to true if the PE file is already mapped into memory
let force_pe64 = false;// Force PE64 format
let force_pe32 = false;// Force PE32 format

let imported_dll_names = unsafe {
    get_import_dll_names(pe_start, is_mapped, force_pe64, force_pe32)
};
println!("Imported DLLs: {:?}", imported_dll_names);
```

### Retrieving Section Names

To get the names of sections within the PE file, use the `get_section_names` function. 
Similar to `get_import_dll_names`, this function requires a pointer to the start of the PE file 
and flags for PE format interpretation.

```rust
let section_names = unsafe {
    get_section_names(pe_start, force_pe64, force_pe32)
};
println!("Section Names: {:?}", section_names);
```

### Retrieving Export RVA

To get the Relative Virtual Address (RVA) of a specific export in the PE file, use the 
`get_export_rva` function.

This function requires a pointer to the start of the PE file, the name of the export,
and flags similar to the other functions.

```rust
let export_name = "SomeExportFunction";
let export_rva = unsafe {
    get_export_rva(pe_start, export_name, is_mapped, force_pe64, force_pe32)
};
if export_rva != usize::MAX {
    println!("RVA of {}: 0x{:X}", export_name, export_rva);
} else {
    println!("Export {} not found", export_name);
}
```

### Optimization

The `force_pe64` and `force_pe32` flags are used to force the parser to interpret the PE file as 
a specific format. This is a compiler hint that can be used to say 'I will only ever deal with PE32'
files, etc. Saves a few instructions.

## Development

How to develop this project.

***Clone this Repository:***
```bash
# When cloning, make sure symlinks are enabled
git clone -c core.symlinks=true https://github.com/Sewer56/min-pe-parser.git
```

***Install Rust:***
- Install the [Rust Toolchain.][rust-toolchain]***Setup IDE***
- This repository is fully with VSCode. [Guidance below](#visual-studio-code-integration).
### Visual Studio Code Integration

`Code`/`VSCode` is the de-facto Rust development environment.  

The following extensions are required:  
- [rust-analyzer][rust-analyzer] for Rust support.  
- [coverage-gutters][coverage-gutters] for Coverage support.  
- [CodeLLDB][codelldb] for debugging.  
- [crates](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=serayuzgur.crates) easier dependency management.  

The VSCode configuration in Reloaded projects (`.vscode`) contain the following:  
- Run Rust linter `clippy` on Save.  
- Run code format `rustfmt` on Save.  
- Tasks for common operations (generate documentation, active CI/CD etc.).  

These configurations are in the `.vscode` folder; and the tasks can be ran via `Ctrl+Shift+P -> Run Task`.  

#### Test Coverage

First install or update `tarpaulin`:

```bash
cargo install cargo-tarpaulin
```

To run Coverage, run task (`Ctrl+Shift+P -> Run Task`), you should see something similar to: 

| Task                   | Description                                                                |
| ---------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Cargo Watch Tarpaulin  | Automatically runs tests and updates coverage on save.                     |
| Generate Code Coverage | Manually generate code coverage (`cobertura.xml`, `tarpaulin-report.html`) |

The `tarpaulin-report.html` file can be opened in VSCode (`Show Preview`) for a live view.

For GUI integration, run action `Coverage Gutter: Watch` (in `Ctrl+Shift+P` actions menu).


## File Layout

The following is the expected file layout for your project:

```
.vscode/
docs/
src/
Cargo.toml
mkdocs.yml
```

The `docs` folder, and `mkdocs.yml` contain [MkDocs Material documentation][mkdocs-material] for your project.  
The `src` folder should contains all source code for your project.  

`Cargo.toml` should be in the root of the project.  

## Releasing a New Version

Make a tag, aptly named after the current version of the project. For instance, if you are publishing version `0.1.0`, the tag should be `0.1.0`. This will create a GitHub release for you automatically.

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.MD) for guidance on how to contribute to this project.  

## License

Licensed under [GPL v3 (with Reloaded FAQ)](./LICENSE).  

[Learn more about Reloaded's general choice of licensing for projects.][reloaded-license].  

[codecov]: https://about.codecov.io/
[codelldb]: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vadimcn.vscode-lldb
[coverage-gutters]: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ryanluker.vscode-coverage-gutters 
[crates-io-key]: https://crates.io/settings/tokens
[nuget-key]: https://www.nuget.org/account/apikeys
[target-triple]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/rustc/platform-support.html
[docs]: https://min-pe-parser.github.io/min-pe-parser
[mkdocs-material]: https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/
[reloaded-license]: https://reloaded-project.github.io/Reloaded.MkDocsMaterial.Themes.R2/Pages/license/
[rust-analyzer]: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=rust-lang.rust-analyzer
[rust-toolchain]: https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install
